In the original Morse telegraphs, the receiver's armature made a clicking
noise as it moved in and out of position to mark the paper tape. The
telegraph operators soon learned that they could translate the clicks
directly into dots and dashes, and write these down by hand, thus making the
paper tape unnecessary. When Morse code was adapted to radio communication,
the dots and dashes were sent as short and long pulses. It was later found
that people became more proficient at receiving Morse code when it is taught
as a language that is heard, instead of one read from a page.
In the 1890s, Morse code began to be used extensively for early radio
communication, before it was possible to transmit voice. In the late
nineteenth and early twentieth century, most high-speed international
communication used Morse code on telegraph lines, undersea cables and radio
circuits. In aviation, Morse code in radio systems started to be used on a
regular basis in the 1920s. Although previous transmitters were bulky and
the spark gap system of transmission was difficult to use, there had been
some earlier attempts. In 1910 the U.S. Navy experimented with sending Morse
from an airplane. That same year a radio on the airship America had been
instrumental in coordinating the rescue of its crew. Zeppelin airships
equipped with radio were used for bombing and naval scouting during World
War I, and ground-based radio direction finders were used for airship
navigation.
